README.md, before:

# Ansible NAS

After getting burned by broken FreeNAS updates one too many times, I figured I could do a much better job myself using
just a stock Ubuntu install, some clever Ansible config and a bunch of Docker containers.


## What This Sets Up

* An awesome dashboard to your home server (Heimdall)
* Any number of Samba shares for you to store your stuff
* A BitTorrent client
* Various media management tools - Sonarr, Sickrage, CouchPotato, Radarr
* Media streaming via Plex or Emby
* A Dropbox replacement via Nextcloud
* Various ways to see stats about your NAS - Glances, dashboards in Grafana
* A backup tool - allows scheduled backups to Amazon S3, OneDrive, Dropbox etc
* An IRC bouncer
* Source control with Gitea
* SSL secured external access to some applications via Traefik
* A Docker host with Portainer for image and container management


### Docker Containers Used

  - [CouchPotato](https://couchpota.to/) - for downloading and managing movies
  - [Duplicati](https://www.duplicati.com/) - for backing up your stuff
  - [Emby](https://emby.media/) - Media streaming and management
  - [Gitea](https://gitea.io/en-us/) - Self-hosted Github clone
  - [Glances](https://nicolargo.github.io/glances/) - for seeing the state of your system via a web browser
  - [Grafana](https://github.com/grafana/grafana) - Dashboarding tool
  - [Guacamole](https://guacamole.apache.org/) - Web based remote desktop gateway, supports VNC, RDP and SSH
  - [Heimdall](https://heimdall.site/) - Home server dashboard
  - [InfluxDB](https://github.com/influxdata/influxdb) - Time series database used for stats collection
  - [Nextcloud](https://nextcloud.com/) - A self-hosted Dropbox alternative
  - [Plex](https://www.plex.tv/) - Plex Media Server
  - [Portainer](https://portainer.io/) - for managing Docker and running custom images
  - [Radarr](https://radarr.video/) - for organising and downloading movies
  - [Sickrage](https://sickrage.github.io/) - for managing TV episodes
  - [Sonarr](https://sonarr.tv/) - for downloading and managing TV episodes
  - [Tautulli](http://tautulli.com/) - Monitor Your Plex Media Server
  - [Telegraf](https://github.com/influxdata/telegraf) - Metrics collection agent
  - [Traefik](https://traefik.io/) - Web proxy and SSL certificate manager
  - [Transmission](https://transmissionbt.com/) BitTorrent client (with OpenVPN if you have a supported VPN provider)
  - [ZNC](https://wiki.znc.in/ZNC) - IRC bouncer to stay connected to favourite IRC networks and channels


## What This Could Do

Ansible-NAS can run anything that's in a Docker image, which is why Portainer is included. A NAS configuration is a pretty personal thing based on what you download, what media you view, how many photos you take...so it's difficult to please everyone.

That said, if specific functionality you want isn't included and you think others could benefit, add it and raise a PR!


## What This Doesn't Do

Ansible NAS doesn't set up your disk partitions, primarily because getting it wrong can be incredibly destructive.
That aside, configuring partitions is usually a one-time (or very infrequent) event, so there's not much to be
gained by automating it.  


## Hardware

Ansible NAS should work on any recent Ubuntu box. Development is done on Ubuntu Server 18.04.1 LTS running on an HP Microserver. 


## How To Use
1. Enable the Ubuntu Universe repository: `sudo add-apt-repository universe`
2. Install Ansible: `sudo apt install ansible`
3. `git clone https://github.com/davestephens/ansible-nas.git && cd ansible-nas`
4. Copy `group_vars/all.yml.dist` to  `group_vars/all.yml`.
5. Open up `group_vars/all.yml` and follow the instructions there for configuring your Ansible NAS.
6. If you plan to use Transmission with OpenVPN, also copy `group_vars/vpn_credentials.yml.dist` to
`group_vars/vpn_credentials.yml` and fill in your settings.
7. Modify `inventory` and update it with the hostname of your NAS box, or use `localhost ansible_connection=local` if you want to run the playbook on the same box you want to use as your ansible-nas.
8. Install the dependent roles: `ansible-galaxy install -r requirements.yml` (you might need sudo to install Ansible roles)
9. Run the playbook - something like `ansible-playbook -i inventory nas.yml -b -K` should do you nicely.


## Migrating from FreeNAS

Assuming that your Ubuntu system disk is separate from your storage (it should be!):

1. Disconnect your drives.
2. Run Ansible NAS against your server.
3. Reconnect your drives.
4. SSH to the server and run `zpool list` to determine available ZFS pools.
5. `zpool import <pool_name>` against the pools you want to attach.
6. `chown -R root:root /mnt/<pool_name>` to fix the ownership of the data.


## TODO

1. Get the tests working on Docker
2. Create useful Grafana dashboards
3. Handle Docker containers being enabled then subsequently disabled (i.e clean up afterwards)
4. SMART disk monitoring


## Contributing

Contributions welcome, please feel free to raise a PR! Please restrict pull requests to one piece of functionality or bugfix at a time, thanks! :+1:

Commit message:

Add shields to README.md, and information about getting help.

README.md, after:

# Ansible NAS

[![Gitter chat](https://img.shields.io/gitter/room/ansible-nas/chat.svg?logo=gitter&style=flat-square)](https://gitter.im/Ansible-NAS/Chat) [![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/DAVFoundation/api_doc.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/DAVFoundation/api_doc/blob/master/LICENSE)

After getting burned by broken FreeNAS updates one too many times, I figured I could do a much better job myself using
just a stock Ubuntu install, some clever Ansible config and a bunch of Docker containers.


## What This Sets Up

* An awesome dashboard to your home server (Heimdall)
* Any number of Samba shares for you to store your stuff
* A BitTorrent client
* Various media management tools - Sonarr, Sickrage, CouchPotato, Radarr
* Media streaming via Plex or Emby
* A Dropbox replacement via Nextcloud
* Various ways to see stats about your NAS - Glances, dashboards in Grafana
* A backup tool - allows scheduled backups to Amazon S3, OneDrive, Dropbox etc
* An IRC bouncer
* Source control with Gitea
* SSL secured external access to some applications via Traefik
* A Docker host with Portainer for image and container management


### Docker Containers Used

  - [CouchPotato](https://couchpota.to/) - for downloading and managing movies
  - [Duplicati](https://www.duplicati.com/) - for backing up your stuff
  - [Emby](https://emby.media/) - Media streaming and management
  - [Gitea](https://gitea.io/en-us/) - Self-hosted Github clone
  - [Glances](https://nicolargo.github.io/glances/) - for seeing the state of your system via a web browser
  - [Grafana](https://github.com/grafana/grafana) - Dashboarding tool
  - [Guacamole](https://guacamole.apache.org/) - Web based remote desktop gateway, supports VNC, RDP and SSH
  - [Heimdall](https://heimdall.site/) - Home server dashboard
  - [InfluxDB](https://github.com/influxdata/influxdb) - Time series database used for stats collection
  - [Nextcloud](https://nextcloud.com/) - A self-hosted Dropbox alternative
  - [Plex](https://www.plex.tv/) - Plex Media Server
  - [Portainer](https://portainer.io/) - for managing Docker and running custom images
  - [Radarr](https://radarr.video/) - for organising and downloading movies
  - [Sickrage](https://sickrage.github.io/) - for managing TV episodes
  - [Sonarr](https://sonarr.tv/) - for downloading and managing TV episodes
  - [Tautulli](http://tautulli.com/) - Monitor Your Plex Media Server
  - [Telegraf](https://github.com/influxdata/telegraf) - Metrics collection agent
  - [Traefik](https://traefik.io/) - Web proxy and SSL certificate manager
  - [Transmission](https://transmissionbt.com/) BitTorrent client (with OpenVPN if you have a supported VPN provider)
  - [ZNC](https://wiki.znc.in/ZNC) - IRC bouncer to stay connected to favourite IRC networks and channels


## What This Could Do

Ansible-NAS can run anything that's in a Docker image, which is why Portainer is included. A NAS configuration is a pretty personal thing based on what you download, what media you view, how many photos you take...so it's difficult to please everyone.

That said, if specific functionality you want isn't included and you think others could benefit, add it and raise a PR!


## What This Doesn't Do

Ansible NAS doesn't set up your disk partitions, primarily because getting it wrong can be incredibly destructive.
That aside, configuring partitions is usually a one-time (or very infrequent) event, so there's not much to be
gained by automating it.  


## Hardware

Ansible NAS should work on any recent Ubuntu box. Development is done on Ubuntu Server 18.04.1 LTS running on an HP Microserver. 


## How To Use
1. Enable the Ubuntu Universe repository: `sudo add-apt-repository universe`
2. Install Ansible: `sudo apt install ansible`
3. `git clone https://github.com/davestephens/ansible-nas.git && cd ansible-nas`
4. Copy `group_vars/all.yml.dist` to  `group_vars/all.yml`.
5. Open up `group_vars/all.yml` and follow the instructions there for configuring your Ansible NAS.
6. If you plan to use Transmission with OpenVPN, also copy `group_vars/vpn_credentials.yml.dist` to
`group_vars/vpn_credentials.yml` and fill in your settings.
7. Modify `inventory` and update it with the hostname of your NAS box, or use `localhost ansible_connection=local` if you want to run the playbook on the same box you want to use as your ansible-nas.
8. Install the dependent roles: `ansible-galaxy install -r requirements.yml` (you might need sudo to install Ansible roles)
9. Run the playbook - something like `ansible-playbook -i inventory nas.yml -b -K` should do you nicely.


## Migrating from FreeNAS

Assuming that your Ubuntu system disk is separate from your storage (it should be!):

1. Disconnect your drives.
2. Run Ansible NAS against your server.
3. Reconnect your drives.
4. SSH to the server and run `zpool list` to determine available ZFS pools.
5. `zpool import <pool_name>` against the pools you want to attach.
6. `chown -R root:root /mnt/<pool_name>` to fix the ownership of the data.


## Getting Help

Getting help is easy! You can:

- Raise an [issue](https://github.com/davestephens/ansible-nas/issues)
- Chat on [Gitter](https://gitter.im/Ansible-NAS/Chat)


## Contributing

Contributions are welcome, please feel free to raise a PR! Please restrict pull requests to one piece of functionality or bugfix at a time, thanks! :+1:
