docs/index.md, before:

![Ansible-NAS Logo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/davestephens/ansible-nas/master/misc/ansible-nas.png "Ansible-NAS Logo")

After getting burned by broken FreeNAS updates one too many times, I figured I could do a much better job myself using just a stock Ubuntu install, some clever Ansible config and a bunch of Docker containers. Ansible-NAS was born!

## Features

* An awesome dashboard to your home server (Heimdall)
* Any number of Samba shares for you to store your stuff
* A BitTorrent client
* Various media management tools - Sonarr, Sickrage, CouchPotato, Radarr
* Media streaming via Plex or Emby
* Music streaming with Airsonic
* A Dropbox replacement via Nextcloud
* Various ways to see stats about your NAS - Glances, dashboards in Grafana
* A backup tool - allows scheduled backups to Amazon S3, OneDrive, Dropbox etc
* An IRC bouncer
* Source control with Gitea
* SSL secured external access to some applications via Traefik
* A Docker host with Portainer management - run anything that's shipped as a Docker container

## Getting Started

Head to [installation](installation.md) if you're ready to roll, or [testing](testing.md) if you want to spin up a test VM first.

Commit message:

Add new doc section with overview for NAS newbies

docs/index.md, after:

![Ansible-NAS Logo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/davestephens/ansible-nas/master/misc/ansible-nas.png "Ansible-NAS Logo")

After getting burned by broken FreeNAS updates one too many times, I figured I could do a much better job myself using just a stock Ubuntu install, some clever Ansible config and a bunch of Docker containers. Ansible-NAS was born!

## Features

* An awesome dashboard to your home server (Heimdall)
* Any number of Samba shares for you to store your stuff
* A BitTorrent client
* Various media management tools - Sonarr, Sickrage, CouchPotato, Radarr
* Media streaming via Plex or Emby
* Music streaming with Airsonic
* A Dropbox replacement via Nextcloud
* Various ways to see stats about your NAS - Glances, dashboards in Grafana
* A backup tool - allows scheduled backups to Amazon S3, OneDrive, Dropbox etc
* An IRC bouncer
* Source control with Gitea
* SSL secured external access to some applications via Traefik
* A Docker host with Portainer management - run anything that's shipped as a Docker container

## Getting Started

Head to [installation](installation.md) if you're ready to roll, or
[testing](testing.md) if you want to spin up a test VM first. If this is all
very confusing, there is also an [overview](overview.md) of the project and what
is required for complete beginners.
