docs/overview.md, before:

Ansible-NAS currently assumes you know your way around a server. This page is an
overview for absolute NAS beginners so they can decide if it is right for them.

## The big picture

To start off _really_ simple: A NAS ([Network Attached
Storage](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network-attached_storage)) is a server
mostly for home or other small networks that offers file storage. It's usually a
small box that sits in the corner and runs 24/7. These days, a NAS doesn't just
only handle files, but also offers other services, for instance video streaming
with [Plex](https://www.plex.tv/) or [Emby](https://emby.media/index.html). You
can buy consumer NAS boxes from [various
manufacturers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_NAS_manufacturers) where
you just have to add the hard drives, or you can configure your own hardware and
use open-source software as the operating system.

One example of the second variant you'll see mentioned here is
[FreeNAS](https://freenas.org/). It is based on
[FreeBSD](https://www.freebsd.org/), which like Linux belongs to the family of
Unix-like operating systems. One strength of FreeBSD/FreeNAS is that it
includes the powerful ZFS file system
([OpenZFS](http://www.open-zfs.org/wiki/Main_Page), to be exact).  However, it
does not support the [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) containers the way Linux
does. Also, the Linux ecosystem is larger. On the other hand, very few Linux
distributions include ZFS out of the box because of licensing issues.

Ansible-NAS in its default form attempts to have the best of both worlds by
using Docker on Linux with ZFS. This is possible because the
[Ubuntu](https://www.ubuntu.com/server) Linux distribution supports both
technologies. As the name says, Ansible-NAS uses
[Ansible](https://www.ansible.com/) server automation which is usually deployed
on big multi-machine enterprise systems, not small home servers the size of a
breadbox.

## Before you take the plunge

The commercial NAS vendors try to make setting up and running a NAS as simple
and painless as possible - for a fee, obviously. The open-source NAS software
providers have lots of resources to help you get started with your own hardware.
FreeNAS for instance comes with extensive documentation, good introductions to
ZFS and other topics, and a large community to lean on.

With Ansible-NAS, at this point at least, you're pretty much on your own. Though
there is a [Gitter](https://gitter.im/Ansible-NAS/Chat) chat room (see
[support](support.md)), you're expected to have some familiarity with the
technologies involved and be able to set up the basic stuff yourself.

As a to-do list, before you can even install Ansible-NAS, you'll have to:

1. Choose, buy, configure, and test your own **hardware**. If you're paranoid (a
   good mindset when dealing with servers), you'll probably want an
   uninterruptible power supply (UPS) of some sort as well as SMART monitoring
   for your hard drives. See the [FreeNAS hardware
   requirements](https://freenas.org/hardware-requirements/) as a guideline, but
   remember you'll also be running Docker. If you use ZFS (see below), take into
   account it [loves RAM](zfs/zfs_overview.md) and prefers to have the hard
   drives all to itself.

1. Install **Ubuntu Server**, currently 20.04 LTS, and keep it updated. You'll
   probably want to perform other basic setup tasks like hardening SSH and
   including email notifications. There are [various
   guides](https://devanswers.co/ubuntu-20-04-initial-server-setup/) for this,
   but if you're just getting started, you'll probably need a book.

You will probably want to install a specialized filesystem for bulk storage such
as [ZFS](http://www.open-zfs.org/wiki/Main_Page) or
[Btrfs](https://btrfs.wiki.kernel.org/index.php/Main_Page). Both offer features
such as snapshots, checksumming and scrubbing to protect your data against
bitrot, ransomware and other nasties. Ansible-NAS historically prefers **ZFS**
because this lets you swap storage pools with
[FreeNAS](https://freenas.org/zfs/). A [brief introduction](zfs/zfs_overview.md)
to ZFS is included in the Ansible-NAS documentation, as well as [an
example](zfs/zfs_configuration.md) of a very simple ZFS setup.

After that, you can continue with the actual [installation](installation.md) of
Ansible-NAS.

## How to experiment

The easiest way to take Ansible-NAS for a spin is in a virtual machine, for
instance in [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/). You'll want to create
three virtual hard drives for testing: One of the actual NAS, and the two others
to create a mirrored ZFS pool. This will let you experiment with installing,
configuring, and running a complete system.

Commit message:

Overview: mention Vagrantfile in the Experiment section and link to the testing page.

docs/overview.md, after:

Ansible-NAS currently assumes you know your way around a server. This page is an
overview for absolute NAS beginners so they can decide if it is right for them.

## The big picture

To start off _really_ simple: A NAS ([Network Attached
Storage](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network-attached_storage)) is a server
mostly for home or other small networks that offers file storage. It's usually a
small box that sits in the corner and runs 24/7. These days, a NAS doesn't just
only handle files, but also offers other services, for instance video streaming
with [Plex](https://www.plex.tv/) or [Emby](https://emby.media/index.html). You
can buy consumer NAS boxes from [various
manufacturers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_NAS_manufacturers) where
you just have to add the hard drives, or you can configure your own hardware and
use open-source software as the operating system.

One example of the second variant you'll see mentioned here is
[FreeNAS](https://freenas.org/). It is based on
[FreeBSD](https://www.freebsd.org/), which like Linux belongs to the family of
Unix-like operating systems. One strength of FreeBSD/FreeNAS is that it
includes the powerful ZFS file system
([OpenZFS](http://www.open-zfs.org/wiki/Main_Page), to be exact).  However, it
does not support the [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) containers the way Linux
does. Also, the Linux ecosystem is larger. On the other hand, very few Linux
distributions include ZFS out of the box because of licensing issues.

Ansible-NAS in its default form attempts to have the best of both worlds by
using Docker on Linux with ZFS. This is possible because the
[Ubuntu](https://www.ubuntu.com/server) Linux distribution supports both
technologies. As the name says, Ansible-NAS uses
[Ansible](https://www.ansible.com/) server automation which is usually deployed
on big multi-machine enterprise systems, not small home servers the size of a
breadbox.

## Before you take the plunge

The commercial NAS vendors try to make setting up and running a NAS as simple
and painless as possible - for a fee, obviously. The open-source NAS software
providers have lots of resources to help you get started with your own hardware.
FreeNAS for instance comes with extensive documentation, good introductions to
ZFS and other topics, and a large community to lean on.

With Ansible-NAS, at this point at least, you're pretty much on your own. Though
there is a [Gitter](https://gitter.im/Ansible-NAS/Chat) chat room (see
[support](support.md)), you're expected to have some familiarity with the
technologies involved and be able to set up the basic stuff yourself.

As a to-do list, before you can even install Ansible-NAS, you'll have to:

1. Choose, buy, configure, and test your own **hardware**. If you're paranoid (a
   good mindset when dealing with servers), you'll probably want an
   uninterruptible power supply (UPS) of some sort as well as SMART monitoring
   for your hard drives. See the [FreeNAS hardware
   requirements](https://freenas.org/hardware-requirements/) as a guideline, but
   remember you'll also be running Docker. If you use ZFS (see below), take into
   account it [loves RAM](zfs/zfs_overview.md) and prefers to have the hard
   drives all to itself.

1. Install **Ubuntu Server**, currently 20.04 LTS, and keep it updated. You'll
   probably want to perform other basic setup tasks like hardening SSH and
   including email notifications. There are [various
   guides](https://devanswers.co/ubuntu-20-04-initial-server-setup/) for this,
   but if you're just getting started, you'll probably need a book.

You will probably want to install a specialized filesystem for bulk storage such
as [ZFS](http://www.open-zfs.org/wiki/Main_Page) or
[Btrfs](https://btrfs.wiki.kernel.org/index.php/Main_Page). Both offer features
such as snapshots, checksumming and scrubbing to protect your data against
bitrot, ransomware and other nasties. Ansible-NAS historically prefers **ZFS**
because this lets you swap storage pools with
[FreeNAS](https://freenas.org/zfs/). A [brief introduction](zfs/zfs_overview.md)
to ZFS is included in the Ansible-NAS documentation, as well as [an
example](zfs/zfs_configuration.md) of a very simple ZFS setup.

After that, you can continue with the actual [installation](installation.md) of
Ansible-NAS.

## How to experiment

The easiest way to take Ansible-NAS for a spin is in a virtual machine, for
instance in [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/) or
[libvirt](https://libvirt.org). You'll want to create three virtual hard drives
for testing: one of the actual NAS, and the two others to create a mirrored ZFS
pool. This will let you experiment with installing, configuring, and running a
complete system.

A [Vagrant](https://vagrantup.com) _Vagrantfile_ and launch script are also
available (`tests/test-vagrant.sh`), see the [testing](testing.md) page for more
details.
